makes won't work all I'm doing right now
is taking water just clear water no pain
in it no tint nothing and just wetting
this piece of paper down this is called
what I'm doing right now is called a
blot up sky or using tissues to make
clouds so step one in this is I'm going
to take my big brush my two inch brush
and I'm gonna get some nice Prussian
blue over here this is Prussian blue and
I want to get it dark enough that you're
going to be able to see it
but I'm still going to add some water to
that and I'm gonna come across I'm just
gonna make a nice wash across here sort
of a graded graded sky as I come down
and I'm not going to do anything to this
as far as adding another color or
anything like that at this point all I
want to do is just drop in this blue the
Prussian blue again I'm gonna get a
little more water and I'm gonna repeat
what I just did just gonna go over that
again get it just a little bit deeper so
and then chop up some of this and come
over the top one more time just come
over the top one more time and just
blend it in one more this is another
touch reason I'm doing this that I'm
trying to get dark enough that when I
put the cloud down you really you'll
really see it alright now I'm gonna take
a tissue this is just a regular regular
Kleenex we're gonna come in and we're
just gonna take this if i press very
hard I'm gonna pick up almost all the
paint
if I press real light I'm gonna just
make little wispy clouds okay so we're
gonna come across this now and I'm gonna
pick up some I'm gonna pick up some
clouds
let's go boom boom boom like this boom
and I'm pressing a combination of hard
and soft now this is probably one of the
simplest ways that you can come up with
to make clouds you just like so boom
boom boom and yeah
another thing you could try is dipping
this a little bit of water and dampen
the thing you're gonna get a little bit
different effect if you dampen it see
how that picked up
a little bit more what I don't want to
do I don't want to make a line of I
don't want to just go blot blot blot and
have all my clouds disconnected I don't
want that's nice
that's really neat I want to make shapes
and I want to connect most of those
shapes I want to keep them
interconnected my wife Judy and I are
riding along in the car the other day
and we looked up at the sky as beautiful
bright day and here's all these little
puffy clouds in the sky and there's puff
puff puff puff puff
not a one touch in the other and I
looked up and I said to Judy I said you
know I would teach my students never
ever do that okay and I kind of looked
up at the sky and I said God how do you
get away with doing some of this stuff
it's amazing but it is a man in nature
sometimes things work that might not
work so well in a painting if I did that
in one of my paintings that would look
it wouldn't it wouldn't look nearly as
beautiful as it did that day so
generally speaking I try and keep them
connected now see how by just by doing
this not only did we put clouds in but
because I press some of them lighter
some of them darker there's a there's
tone variation so you have shadows in
the clouds and that's probably the
easiest way to make clouds